### About this folder

This contain the services layer of this app.

### What and why we use services layer?

The services layer is a crucial part of an application's architecture that contains the business logic. It acts as an intermediary between the controllers (or other entry points) and the data access layer (repositories). The services layer is responsible for processing data, applying business rules, and orchestrating operations across multiple repositories or other services

### What the Services Layer is Doing

- Processing Data:

The services layer processes incoming data from controllers or other entry points. This can include transforming, validating, and sanitizing data before it is used or stored.

- Applying Business Rules:

It contains the business logic of the application. This includes enforcing business rules, performing calculations, and ensuring that the data adheres to the business requirements.

- Orchestrating Operations:

The services layer coordinates complex operations that may involve multiple repositories or external services. It ensures that these operations are executed in the correct order and handles any dependencies between them.

- Error Handling:

The services layer is responsible for handling errors that occur during business operations. It can log errors, perform retries, or propagate errors to higher layers for further handling.

- Transaction Management:

In some cases, the services layer manages transactions to ensure that a series of operations either complete successfully as a whole or are rolled back to maintain data integrity.

### Flow

In this source, rememeber that:

The flow will be: Controller -> Service -> Repository -> ORM

- 1 controller can use many services
- 1 service can use many repositories

### Usage

Example how to create new service

1. First, create new service interface:

```
import { Dog } from '@/models/dogs.model';
import { IBaseCrudService } from '@/services/interfaces/i.base-crud.service';

// eslint-disable-next-line @typescript-eslint/no-empty-object-type
export interface IDogService extends IBaseCrudService<Dog, number> {}

```

What is IBaseCrudService? This is the base service that define some common method that every service will need

Using it by extend it

2. Create a class that implement the above interface:

```
import { Dog } from '@/models/dogs.model';
import { IDogRepository } from '@/repository/interfaces/i.dog.repository';
import { BaseCrudService } from '@/services/base-crud.service';
import { IDogService } from '@/services/interfaces/i.dog.service';
import { DiTypes } from '@/types/di/DiTypes';
import { inject, injectable } from 'inversify';

@injectable()
export class DogService extends BaseCrudService<Dog, number> implements IDogService {
  protected dogRepository: IDogRepository<Dog, number>;
  constructor(@inject(DiTypes.DOG_REPOSITORY) dogRepository: IDogRepository<Dog, number>) {
    super(dogRepository);
    this.dogRepository = dogRepository;
  }
}

```

- Dont forget add @injectable() to mark this service can be injected by the controllers.
- How to inject repositories? Please inject the interface of the repository you want in the service constructor, and then dont forget to mapping its class implementer in the DiContainer folder.
