### About this folder

This contain the repositorys of the application

### What and why use repository?

The flow will be: Controller -> Service -> Repository -> ORM

- 1 controller can use many services
- 1 service can use many repositories

Using the repository pattern provides a clean separation between the data access logic and the business logic, making the codebase more maintainable, testable, and flexible. It abstracts the complexities of data access, allowing the rest of the application to interact with the data layer through a simple and consistent API

### What is the Repository Layer Doing?

The repository layer is responsible for handling data access logic in an application. It acts as an intermediary between the business logic (services) and the data source (such as a database). Here’s a detailed breakdown of what the repository layer does:

- Data Access Abstraction:

The repository layer abstracts the complexities of data access, providing a simple and consistent API for the rest of the application to interact with the data source.
It hides the details of how data is fetched, stored, and manipulated, allowing the business logic to focus on higher-level operations.

- CRUD Operations:
  The repository layer typically provides methods for Create, Read, Update, and Delete (CRUD) operations.
  These methods interact with the underlying data source (e.g., a database) to perform the necessary operations.

- Query Handling:
  The repository layer can provide methods for handling complex queries, abstracting the query logic from the business logic.
  This includes filtering, sorting, and pagination.

- Transaction Management:
  In some cases, the repository layer can manage transactions, ensuring that multiple operations are executed atomically.

### Usage

Example how to create new repository

By default, you can extend the BaseRepostiory, this repository descibe some common method that every repository will need;

1. First, create new interface:

```
import { IBaseRepository } from '@/repository/interfaces/i.base.repository';

export interface IHumanRepository<T, ID> extends IBaseRepository<T, ID> {
  findByName(name: string): Promise<T | null>;
}
```

2. Implement the interface above:

```
import { Dog } from '@/models/dogs.model';
import { BaseRepository } from '@/repository/base.repository';
import { IDogRepository } from '@/repository/interfaces/i.dog.repository';
import { injectable } from 'inversify';

@injectable()
export class DogRepository extends BaseRepository<Dog, number> implements IDogRepository<Dog, number> {
  protected Model = Dog;
  constructor() {
    super();
    this.BaseModel = this.Model;
  }
}

```

Dont forget the @injectable() annotation, this will descibe that this repository can be injected to the Services
