## About this folder

This folder contain all DTO of this application

What, why and when we use DTOs?

1. Convert Request to DTO before Passing to Service

Example:

```
const data = req.body;
const requestDtoConverted = convertToDto(CreateNewDogRequestDto, data);
const result = await this.dogService.create(requestDtoConverted);
```

Why it's necessary:

- Validation: DTOs help validate incoming data. By converting the request data to a DTO, you ensure that the data adheres to the rules and constraints defined in the DTO.
- Decoupling: DTOs decouple the business logic of the service from the structure of the request. This makes it easier to change the request structure without affecting the business logic.
- Consistency: DTOs help maintain consistency in data handling. All incoming data is converted and validated in the same way.

2. Convert Result from Service before Returning Response to Client
   Example:

```
const result = await this.dogService.create(requestDtoConverted);
const responseDtoConverted = convertToDto(CreateNewDogResponseDto, result);
const formatedReponse = new ResponseGenerator<CreateNewDogResponseDto>().createSuccessResponse(responseDtoConverted);
```

Why it's necessary:

- Encapsulation: DTOs encapsulate the returned data, providing only the necessary information to the client and hiding unnecessary or sensitive details.
- Consistency: DTOs help maintain consistency in the returned data. All outgoing data is converted and formatted in the same way.
- Security: DTOs protect sensitive data by only returning the necessary information to the client.
- Formatting: DTOs help format the returned data into a specific structure, making it easier for the client to process and display the data.

Also, by using DTOs, we can easily define Swagger API Documentation for the request and response of each API Endpoints, example:

```
import { SwaggerExample, SwaggerProperty } from 'class-to-swagger-schema';
import { Expose } from 'class-transformer';

export class CreateNewDogRequestDto {
  @Expose()
  @SwaggerProperty("Dog's name")
  @SwaggerExample('Jerry')
  name!: string;

  @Expose()
  @SwaggerProperty("Dog's breed")
  @SwaggerExample('Husky')
  breed!: string;
}
```

The above using @SwaggerExample and @SwaggerProperty from my own package: [class-to-swagger-schema](https://www.npmjs.com/package/class-to-swagger-schema). This is a very helpul and light weight package for mapping Typescript class to Swagger Schema.

- @SwaggerProperty: this will define this property will be show in the swagger schema, and describe of that property
- @SwaggerExample: this will define the example for this property will shown in swagger schema
